And
life
now, yes ladies and gentlemen, good morning,
good afternoon, we are alive, colors,
yum, and YouTube, so just
a hello everyone, welcome
to our Imagine or
Finance panel with Botstein, supported by
Stellar Visa. I am Roberto Dulce and I will be
moderating today's session. Sharing
the stage with me are some friends and
experts from the world of INTEC and Botstein,
who were going to introduce themselves a little bit in
the videos. My friends, please introduce yourselves
in order, your names, and your companies.
That's how they will be in the presentation, and
when it's your slide, talk a little bit
about your role, your company, and above all,
how you ended up working with fintech and
blogging to give a little
context for our friends on the
call. So, I'll start with
myself to give an example. My name is
Roberto here in Canada, in the US they call me
Road, in Brazil they call me Vetó, but well, I
think Roberto is fine for today. I am
the Director of Volume Business
at the Stellar Foundation, and very simply,
for those who are not
familiar with this law, we
are one of the first boxing networks
that was developed specifically
for For payments and international payments,
and the functionalities and operations
from the zone,
no,
if you're the news, and with my way of
hallucinating, and the one with the bag,
well, we had a little more music
for us, always well, but
return to the Stellar presentation.
So, a brush for payments, our
focus is on this volcano, it's the
organization of financial assets and
international remittances, plus pending
civil matters, and if
digital currencies for central banks, and
just an idea, we enable
international payments 24/7, the speed
is about five seconds, never more than that,
and the cost is a fraction of a cent,
so a very, very efficient network
for payments. Regarding this, I
started my professional career as
a programmer at Citibank in England, and
today we have one of the
people here who started his professional life
with me, Marcelo, he's in the
audience today, and after that, about
15 years ago, in multiple banks in the area
of ​​digital product projects,
Silver, Rabobank, Bici, and fintech is something
more recent for the show, like 2017,
after where Blocks Game and it became my
passion, and well, we're going to continue with everything, my
friend, with you.
Thank you very much, Roberto. It's a pleasure to be
with you. My name is Arnold Dos
Reyes, and I'm the Vice President of Digital Alliances at Visas.
We are the world's largest
international electronic payments network,
and our
mission is to connect
people, businesses, governments, and
institutions to move value
through our electronic network. I've been with
Visas for exactly four years. I came
to Visas through an entrepreneurial venture
and an investment I made in a
company called Abra. Now,
in 2015-2016, we're creating a
wallet specifically to focus on
solving
certain problems for
consumers in emerging markets,
primarily Latin America and Asia
Pacific.
Before that, almost six years ago, I was at
PayPal in the
emerging markets team, and then responsible
for expanding Visas to
Latin America in more than 20 markets, developing
products, strategies, and alliances.
My career has been primarily
in financial services, very focused
on emerging markets, mainly
Latin America. I've
also worked in payment networks like
Mastercard,
and prior to that, I began my career...
Investment brand, the team is taking time to
lower criticism but is very focused
on Latin America and some markets in the
US and Europe, and it's a pleasure to be with
you today. I think what's
happening in Latin America,
at least in
my professional career, I've never seen so much
enthusiasm, so much investment, and so much
talent, not to mention some
truly incredible companies in our
region. Thank you for inviting me.
Gases del Toldo, and well, continuing, Jose,
with you. Good
morning, good afternoon, where are you?
Thank you, and it's a pleasure to be here today. My name is
Jose Luis Nuñez, I've been in
the Pitt arena for 16 years, exporting for
international
e-commerce companies. Today I'm the Vice President of
Sales for Wire, and our company
focuses on financial infrastructure and
AFIS, which means putting developers and
entrepreneurs with block
change projects, equipment purchases, payment methods, and
value movements. Thank you very much, and it's
a pleasure to be here today.
Wonderful, thank you. I mean, from Ruben with
you,
hello everyone, how are you? And thank you for
having me here on this panel. I'm
excited to be able to specify,
Jamie, how you can use this
technology to solve
people's financial problems in the world. It's a The
problem is that I've
had the honor of actively
trying to solve it.
For six years now,
working well with him, he kept
starting from scratch, back when
the Cohen beat cost
$200. For me, it's
been a
gigantic personal and technical transformation, and not just inert,
but the industry is a super exciting time
because
well,
now those of us who
provide services on top of the
technology that exists right now are
perhaps the first to
bring access to it to the people who
need it,
but the change is coming
en masse, and that's a giant network effect
that's pushing us, not pushing anyone, it's
pushing everyone, so it's a
great time to start
taking the last minute to start
doing something because later it'll
be too late for the party, right? But anyway, it's a
pleasure to be here and to talk to you about
someone who has a
dollar account that people in Latin America
can use to save, make
international payments and receive payments, buy
things, invest, but well, it's practical,
thank you, and if you still have the
$200 Obito Coin, I'll buy it for $250. So
we can Speaking after the
presentation, but to do it, I generated
this summer, I was
selling them, selling a thousand, because
you have to raise the price.
A good day today, what a marvel, Cesar.
Last but not least,
please,
hello everyone, good day, and
I appreciate the invitation to this panel.
Speaking of
health,
the reason for being is to signify
business-to-
business relationships, as I like to call them, and in
recent years we have been focused
through the corporate card product,
making an impact on small and medium-sized
businesses and startups,
to be able to facilitate the way and revolve, above
all, in which different types of payments are made.
Part of what we seek is, through the
technological power, to offer this
platform in which we use several
components that we will talk about throughout
this session: artificial intelligence,
blogging, of course, and in the end, what
we bring is a value proposition that seeks to
maximize time, especially in this era of
hyper-connectivity in which we seek to
do everything very quickly,
a matter of haste and constant
evolution. Briefly speaking about myself, from the
leap to the decent part, I have been
working for the last 18 years in the
area of ​​technology,
the Vittek space, and I see this Boom, what
Arnaldo described in the region, and
especially how each
country is absorbing a bit of the
dye in the consumption and
business sectors. It was, how
would I say, a game changer for Pay,
because I have to get on board with that,
Hugo, which is moving very, very fast, and in which a lot of
change can be done through innovation, to the benefit of
simplifying operations and, above all,
the lives of everyone here.
Wonderful! Well said,
thank you very much. So now I'm going to
close the screen here and let's go to
our talk page. Of
course, just one piece of information:
Sheryl is with us,
and closer to the end of the
panel, we have a surprise, some very
important information for
everyone with us today
regarding Startup Weekend, which takes
place next week. So,
this will
stay with us until the end
because it's important information.
Well, from my side, I have some
questions here, but it's a very
informal panel, and I'd like all the
participants to join in to
add comments and
questions as well. So we can
begin, I have six questions here that
are grouped under the
fintech landscape in Latin America, the click route, and
how we, each of you,
brought yourselves here today, and for your
companies, and finally, some advice and
suggestions for those who
are starting out in fintech and
Latin America. To begin, I'd like
Rubén to ask you, perhaps the first question, about
Latin America as a
whole, about your experience
not only with your company but since the
arrival of fintech, what do you
think are the main
financial technologies that are
growing in Latin America? Yes, and why?
Why do you think these technologies
are growing in our region? Well, you see, I
think that in Latin America, as in the rest of
the world,
we have become accustomed
over the last
20 years
to the fact that the products
we consume are increasingly
focused on us as
consumers, so much so that your experience
on your Instagram feed is very different
from mine.
Yes, yes, friends, your Instagram feed
wouldn't be relevant to me,
and I think that concept has permeated the
whole world. In every
industry that exists, we as
consumers are currently expecting
products that don't exactly suit
us,
and that... well, it was
born with the internet and the
entrepreneurs who were born with the
internet, given that it was very easy
to send a new,
more refined version of a product to their
users. They are basically looking
to create the exact product for the
exact person, and I think that has reached
finance. I think there is
a lot of technology that allows
many companies to
offer financial products on the
internet.
Thanks to this
entrepreneurial dynamic, where you are always
looking to give the best
exact product to the customer, there are
now
many alternatives
of financial products that are hyper-
targeted to specific consumers, and this will cause
an abandonment of
financial institutions that for a
very long time offered a very
generic product. I'm not saying they are
bad, but I am saying that
thanks to this advent and this kind of
convergence of...
premises, there will be
financial products and services
focused on niches that would otherwise
be
served by a provider that didn't
speak exactly to you, millennial,
impactful startup company that needs... A
cooler card than the one the
SOFOM in Mexico gives you, or we have a
more suitable account for you,
Latin American freelancer, you like gaming, you get
paid with PayPal,
and in Mexico, well, that's why there were so many
applications
for the fintech law because there are
many types of markets, in niche
markets, to whom you can give a
very suitable product and make a
great business by achieving that. There isn't
a million clients in a bank,
well, then lending to a million
people,
World Davis, you know, I'm sure we're going to
continue expanding throughout
the region. There will be more John Bond Link,
more financial services with more
options that are personalized locally,
or rather, manage to create an offer that is
much more suited to
specific needs, and I think we're going to
see that not only throughout the
region but across the entire range of
financial services that exist for
companies and people.
Perfect. Well, I think this is a
very important point for our talk
today because Unbond Link is
allowing new technologies to be
used for specific cases and uses
in finance, and because before we had, like,
the solutions Grouped
by banks and the experience for
remittances, that's what
the work is doing with
the cards for the 'semi'. It was something
that was very widespread, and so I think
that above the 'bund' link, it's
also creating an opportunity for
innovation in each of the
verticals. And at this point, Arnold, you
have a privileged vision because
you see the corporate side, but also
the side of Elvis Are Dangers, and I mean, in this
emergence of new
financial technologies with Conan Bund
Link and HyperFockers, as Rubén
mentioned, I
've seen the investments in NATO funds
following a specific area or
trend. And if there's any projection of
where these funds are going to
migrate in the near future,
where they will be in the world,
undoubtedly I think there are certain
macro factors in Latin America that
are in our favor,
and there are regions like Southeast Asia
Pacific that also have certain
similarities. We have a market with
more than 650 million people,
most of whom are, in quotes,
young people, being able to access
a smartphone that is
becoming something every day. More accessible in
terms of price and development programs, and at the same
time we have
financial services from
traditional players,
which is an extremely profitable business,
but at the same time it's a business where
three, four, or five institutions in a
country control 70 or 80 percent of the
banking market. So I think that at a
macro level, when you step back a bit and see
these dynamics, you say, well, there's an
opportunity to offer
the most basic financial services
simply in a much better way and with a
much better experience than what we've been
seeing. So, from the
investors' perspective, both
Flequillo Ex and Vista, but also
many of our investors
are Valen, Cuide,
etc. We invest with schools; there's
an immense appetite there because,
despite what we read in the centers that they
deny that Plaza So-and-so is raising more money,
all these investment rounds
are excellent, but they still don't represent,
in my opinion, even 10% of the
opportunity in Latin America.
In my opinion, there is a market
that you could see in Newark, given its
size
and what we've seen, and I would say
mainly in the last 24 months, one thing is that there are
more crisis activities. They'll
cut us off, Choca, but it's entering a
bit more aggressively.
Traditionally, it's the
Vista-type companies, but we're also seeing
Latin American companies that aren't in
financial services. Some are
not very large soda bottlers
that are making investments
in digital wallets,
and we saw this case with
Conecta in Mexico, where the first
big investor was Oxxo, and
through the Gente group. So we're
seeing more activity from the
difficult side and from traditional funds. What's
interesting that we're seeing now
is that there's
a group of funds that
have traditionally been what they
call "rose-colored" funds, which are funds that
mainly enter
growth rounds, series,
etc.,
by Tim Cairo, etc. And these funds are
now sometimes getting involved in
the rounds, if not
today, the 'tie-break' and vice, to be
able to have a position in these
companies. So we're seeing, which
for me is excellent,
liquidity
because I've never seen, at least in
my career, I tell you, many friends have
n't.
And the verticals that we're seeing of
great interest,
one is infrastructure.
Nowadays, it's not very easy to enable a
program, say, for cards in Mexico
and verify it. A very easy way in
Brazil, and then launching
that infrastructure in Colombia, shouldn't be the case if there's
demand. It increases, and there are companies that have already
raised rounds, and
others that are in the process.
All the issues of Cristo, I think more
recently with the benefits of the
disc market in Del Viso, which melted
two weeks ago, I
think there's a
very big opportunity there, particularly with
stablecoins, all the
solutions around USD/DC and
other very attractive solutions. And then
in the area of
basic financial services, I mean, being able to make
a payment online, not being able to buy
or eat without a credit card,
and being able to get a
consumer loan for basic services
that are currently offered by
traditional players, but whose experiences are
perhaps not the best. So,
we are very active in the sector. Today
we have a portfolio of five companies
in the process of being established, with several more,
and we are investing in banking as a
service,
acquiring, or issues of how we grow
merchant acceptance in the region,
processors, issuers, many
related infrastructures,
and so I think we are going to
see much more traction from
large investors, funds, and the
same You see,
a talent that we're seeing today,
incredible talent emerging from companies
like Braf and Uber Latin America, from
Strike,
and at a good time, The New Band, etc.
So I think the dynamics are
there to start businesses, without a
doubt.
Well, wonderful also for me, who hasn't been
in Latin America for a
few years, to hear this from someone
who's closer because it makes me
happy that we have
this liquidity, this opportunity. He
spoke, and I think the categories he
mentioned will be in
our talk today as well. For example,
the infrastructure, the volume that
we're doing to scale. We're talking a
lot about crypto infrastructure, going to
companies that today provide
custody or similar services. To see if
making a deposit in the US
or other countries is almost a million
dollars in investment in
Latin America, also a considerable amount.
So, it's very close to
our perception. And that's it, Carlos.
Thank you very much. And
continuing with this, a little
more on investments. Have you made any
very
recent contributions, and have you done so in an
innovative way? Yes, so can you
talk a little bit about that? From
your company's experience as a startup
fundraising in Latin America, and if this
investment came from Latin America, the
funds were given more from other
regions,
very gladly.
At the end of the day, there's an
interesting figure to consider: the population
of Latin America is
650 million people, which
translates into 650 million
possibilities.
So, Frayba has
been investing in
its own platform, and now, in
our last
investment round, we worked with various
players
in the sector, a combination of
players in North America and also in
the region, precisely because the
possibilities seen here are quite
extensive. We're talking about a
place where there's a need to have
this mechanism to be able to launch
businesses, especially at this
point where we talk about—and I think it's been
mentioned—the moment to be
a founder. So, it's about giving
these founders the possibilities, the
tools to be able to have
financial inclusion. And here the point is, okay, company after
company sees that they are making
these connections, so what means do
we put at their disposal to be able to
achieve this objective? And through this, it's
basically the The spirit I bring to the
search, and we've been working hard
with these investors on this mission to
empower companies and, more
importantly, to facilitate—I'll tell you—their
lifecycle, especially when we talk
about tasks that are sometimes part of
everyday life, like simplifying the
payroll cycle, being able to make
transfers in a matter of minutes, or, well,
if we go to
technological precision, seconds. Not having that
competitive advantage that helps
preserve this issue of
speed—today we sometimes talk about how
technology can cause disruption and
change—and applied to
Findeter in particular, we see this new era
of connecting services, not because we still
have a legacy environment and a
new one, and now a
new way is emerging that will
allow us to have a means to
accelerate.
Perfect. And you mentioned that, well,
part of the funding, while in
North America, part of the
Latin American region, and I think an
interesting intersection on the topic
of our panel, finance, and
also the discussion of funding rounds
in Latin America, is that you also
innovated in the way you do the round.
New technologies will be used for
this. Can you talk about... A little bit of that
too,
in the end there's an
interesting component in the dye part, right? And it's in
this era where everything is a service.
Now we're playing hard with the
banking-as-a-service aspect and
enabling platforms that allow us to
interconnect, especially to
accelerate the last transaction.
This greatly simplifies
operations, and we're also introducing
how to accelerate
payments.
The famous PP professor has
been a key issue for
us, and all of this is empowered by
allowing our clients to
apply for a line of credit
in a matter of minutes.
This is where we have a
certain strong area of ​​the path because
we leverage
artificial intelligence to have a model
that
includes growth vectors. It's not a
bit about renting the status quo and saying what
we can do to be a
strong partner for these companies and, above
all, help them catalyze
simplicity in their operations.
In addition to this, there's the issue of
expense management and also
integrations with
accounting platforms, which are again the area in the banking-as-a-
service era, having this
information close to real-time and the
new result in a matter of seconds. Being
able to be aligned, okay, what is the
intelligence on the money coming in,
but also the money going out, and
ultimately being able to analyze what
these trends are, especially where I'm
seeing more, where I'm
spending more, what my
needs are, and from there work
with other departments that contribute great
value to the company, Edith, but above all, you
can decide to donate less because of something
that is the data aspect, because here
in this new era it is a very
strong lever for all of us where
information helps us make better
decisions.
Perfect. I asked that question
because I know a little about the products you
bring today.
You started with products that,
perhaps looking from the outside, seem like
normal banking products, like a
loan or a line of credit or a
credit card, but you get
closer to understanding how it works.
You are using Block Cheyne and you
are using this button. You are
using this to enable, in exchange
for senders, the price, speed,
better analytics
to improve it. So, do
you think it connects a little with what
Rubén and I were talking about, and to finish,
the super spotlights and how to improve the
help experience, and using new
technologies. Sometimes you use
products that already exist, but they exist in
a different format. That it wasn't addressing some of the
population's follow-ups, like
for example, fintechs and
startups, and CCO believes that so here's
a message for those who
are with us about the possibility
of reinventing existing products
with other
existing technologies, like blogs themselves. And
the last question for this section, I'm
going to leave it open for
anyone who wants to talk about it,
but I won't because it was very strong
for me that we have room for 45, 90, or
45 Mercado Pagos or similar platforms,
and
I wonder a bit why we aren't there yet. I mean, it's already being taken for granted that we're at
the forefront of the
fintech revolution, a club that perhaps
falls short or that we're lacking to reach its
full potential. So, if anyone
has an opinion, a point they'd
like to bring up, well, I do
n't know what other evidence there could be that there is
going to be, or is, a fintech revolution. It
's imminent, you know. There's a
beastly amount of money flowing into the space.
There are
15 alternative financial products
that are competing for your attention all day
on Instagram.
The "think it" means that you, and I
think it's going to be
a somewhat painful change because
right now the market is a bit closed. I do
n't think we can expect anything
different
from a similar action or reaction
to what the taxi drivers had
when Uber came in. And I think
the taxis in this case are much more
powerful than the taxis and the unions
they have, who nevertheless
managed to make certain changes and have
managed to slow things down in several
cities. And I think that the banks, which
have a lot of economic interests, are
going to protect their motorcycles, just like I
would, because I'm an executive who
has a company, I have, well,
the game, because I'm not going to do anything but
protect what's mine, you know? And I say, I
'm very capitalist, for me anything goes. I mean, as long as it's
ethical and moral, but
if it's a way, a license, you take advantage of it. That's how
I'm looking for the
license because it's going to be another way, and I know they're
not going to let me do certain
things because these Delmonte guys, the banks, we're
also going to do things with the banks,
and if it becomes a case like
Venezuela, well, if there are cases like That
person who also serves in those
places,
anything goes, and I think we have to
work together and
support our friends at Vista
Estelar because in a way you
have
a key;
you can
give a person in a country a
card with which they can spend their
money. It's a super powerful channel, and
Visa
has to decide
if it wants to be on the team of
innovation, inclusion, and progress,
or if it wants to help the banks
save their money.
And I think it's
a question for more because
I think there's a lot of
infrastructure that doesn't depend on
banks; it's there for the banks, which
can also be used by Intex
so that Intex can offer
financial services. And this
is gay, and Pérez can either not conspire
or they can join the fight for
financial freedom,
and Biz is a very clear example
because they're right there in the middle. But for
example, Kaká or Page weren't allowed to
operate in Mexico anymore, so
now you're going to see everyone going
directly with Visa to launch their programs
or with a sponsoring bank.
But
the question
here for Visa is, what do you think? Which
side are you going to take? And what I say is to be
careful. I'm going to knock on your door
on Monday. Arnoldo, neutral, because under
clause 27, article 2 of our
rules, your company is mentioned in the
panel and has priority of response.
So no, there's no
problem. Actually, Vista is
in a very interesting position.
We're literally sitting in the middle
of several ecosystems. Not
traditionally, if you know our history, it
started
with a consortium of banks in the US.
But I would say that although today
most of the payment network business,
not just Vista but other
payment networks, comes from a
relatively simple business—not very
complex technologies, but very simple. You have
members who are licensed for these
networks. They partner with the networks, and these
members today
are mostly banks, and they issue or distribute
Vista payment credentials with
any other brand.
And our role is basically to
ensure that the flow of money between those parties—
the banks, the acquirers, the
merchants, the consumers—
occurs. And at the end of the day, that's
Visa's technology. And what we
've done in recent years
is issue primary licenses
to FinText, like FinText. You paint
so that they are another member of
Vista, not at the same time.
Today you have companies that are
based in Latin America that are already
major members, just like a
bank, and they can transact, they can
consume Vista products, etc.
But historically, I would say that companies
and other payment methods have been
grouped with banks because the
business model comes from there. I think there is
a regulatory issue
that we also have to deal with, just like
the dyes. I'm
not going to get into specific cases,
but to say, issues with cacao,
it's a decision of the CNV or the other
regulators, not Vista's decision.
Rather, we have a strategic alliance with
cacao and many others because they help us
enable Exintex, and in many cases, they
help these farms to issue, say,
a prepaid credit or debit card,
in a fairly agile way.
So I believe that our position is
and will continue to be
how we contribute to the growth of the
ecosystem,
and at the end of the day, our philosophy is that the
consumer will choose the best product, whether it's
a card from a Mexican bank or
any other country, and we... What we've been doing, let's
call it through a program we
call Central CAFTA, which involves thinking
with Axtel, Victor Red, and through
Angers' view, is to help
the ecosystem grow.
When money moves through
Visa networks, this money may have been
generated by payments made by
card players or traditional banks.
But I do think there's a lot of work
to be done in the region because some
markets, some countries, say
they're driving innovation, but at the
same time, you see and say, "Well, you say you're
driving innovation, but the
regulations don't allow for anything that
can be done." And
part of our role is precisely to
educate regulators, from
what cryptocurrencies are and what
browsing is, to how a VILLA ONION works,
because they are relatively new models
within the ecosystem.
But today, it's
an effort that doesn't just exist; I think
the rest of the payment networks that
we're trying to streamline today are also involved. And the
point is not whether we're on the
side of the banks or on the side of the numbers;
I think it's that we're in the middle, and
the business model... Rather, it
feeds and grows as
more companies go towards what it
does,
managing products seen from other
networks. In general, the ecosystem grows,
not necessarily by taking the side
of a personality, and Arnoldo, you don't
feel like I'm attacking, but you
clearly see it
[Applause]
pushing the technology, and you're on this
panel, talking with those on
this side, and those from Bring Dance, and those from
Wire or Serpents. Clearly, you
are pushing for that, but
my question is, how, and no, I don't
know much about the
integration that Visa
Stellar is doing, but
could it be that
a client can spend their money
in their World directly on Visa and Visa
receives, for example, some in
exchange for that money they are going to
spend, or will there always have to be a
bank in between Visa and people who don't look
at the more specific part
of the written work,
we will see that we have enabled
settlement, which is the status of the
transaction. In your case, it's different, so we have
added WebBike, we have integrated the age
of the 150 coins within the
Visa ecosystem, and so it has accepted
players. They can settle
directly on Vista Net with Diversity.
We launched the Betia Club
through an investment we made
with the registration in the US to
offer any
player in Latin America who wants to provide
those services of buying, selling, and
storing Christ's coins to 13 Vista
Delights. There are
some things we are developing
around energy and how to help
people who are generating energy to
market it. So I think at the
end of the day it's
not necessarily about
ensuring there's always an
intermediary; it's about how we can
move value
as long as it's safe and reliable.
And all that because there's one thing we
know: the most intimate thing for a
person is their money, or for a
company. So I think there's still a
lot to be done.
Right now, the
philosophy was... what
we're doing now is to eliminate
intermediaries, not person-to-person or whatever.
And so I think
eventually we're going to find
use cases where there's no reason to
have two or three intermediaries. That's
not necessarily what it's about, but to be
honest, it's great
because many tasks are relatively
new for payment networks. Yes, I
think this discussion connects very
well to the question because... Maybe it's in
the middle, yes, I mean, I see how Rubén
spoke about whether it's ethical or
correct to use it in the
capitalist game, and he believes that Visa has
interests in maintaining the 'Big Ben'
XXXII and they continue to use Visas,
but they have the possibility of bringing
startup technology to the
levels and also bringing
non-credit access cards for the 21st century.
So what we were looking at
is that the university competition is an
initial opportunity for, and other estimated
coins in other currencies like the yen,
Bridgetown euro, and things like that. If you
want an option to delve
deeper into other geographies where,
for the prescribers first, this is much
more natural than going through
a bank and having more costs. And
so I think there's, like, Roberto,
excuse me, just one question, what you're
saying, and given that the panel is
from Latin America, is there currently a
product you're interested in creating,
obviously over time, to give that
same access to those
Visa accounts that are connected to
you, yes, to people throughout the
Latin American region?
Giving them plastic cards
with which they can spend their
money, and in any country
like this, I imagine the answer is yes, of course.
We're even seeing a
use case in Latin America today
with marketplaces, and so
wallets in certain markets will be
able to receive those payments directly
to the wallet.
A user decides and will have a
payment credential, whether the company wants it digital or
physical, and this person automatically
receives this payment in their wallet, it
pushes it to a Vista credential,
whether it's digital
or physical. So there are
use cases that we are already
working on in this sense.
The other opportunity is
international promises. When
you think of iurgi, you can think of iurgi
Payments, between the
international sales version, but also
domestic goals within Latin America,
where there are countless cases. I would rather
talk about which use case
you would be interested in building because my
team is leading these issues,
and the more abuse cases we
raise, the better for us.
We are Vista customers, and we are
very happy because we have a
prepaid card that we can use to spend our
money. Over time, but obviously there are
many improvements that can be made to the
product, and there's networking, Roberts, but
it's incredible that you're here
representing
a company with so much power in this
battle, and battle because I think we're
all doing something to help people
have better financial prospects. I
agree, and I have a somewhat
interesting role, not because I
'm involved in and pushing all
these initiatives, but at the same time, I
sit on the board of several
Syntex companies, and I come to this world,
so I also have this field of
influence,
and it's interesting because the dynamics
are... sometimes you can gain an
advantage, but the point is to be able to open the
ecosystem as much as possible. And gentlemen,
we're here, like, on the final time channel.
We have a question that comes into the
chat, and Roger Rengifo asks, "Could it be
done so that through a
Visa card, a person can buy
a token on the bot network list?"
Then Roger Olori says, "Yes, it's already
possible today, some tokens that are
connected to this, to the RACC set, on Visa and
Mastercard through third parties like
PaySimple, to withdraw and others." And so
here it's believed that these are a wallet
where they can buy the... 'Stable'
currency also uses them and tokens that have been
using a
credit card, but Carnoedo
mentioned here to Rubén that one of the
things they are working on with
Visa is the fast track to
issue a Visa card for the cards,
which also serves the interest,
not only to allow
people to buy
and hold
crypto assets using the card,
but also for the company that
issues the card to settle the balance
using another
digital currency, yes, because there we have a
described ecosystem; otherwise, there's no need to
go through banks and
fees, and it takes from one or two days.
So the answer, what do you think, is that we
have something like that. Well, before I go over
to him and talk a little bit about startups, I
think I'm going to ask a
final question here for the panel, and I'm left with
the truth that time goes by
very quickly when we have such an
interesting topic. We have, I think,
entrepreneurs and people who are
starting their projects
in the group. Do
you have any advice or
final comments from your side for
them who are starting
their startups? The bed and I think
many positive words were
spoken today, as you say, about the
pound and the ERC now existing, as Rubén
spoke to José, to you too. No, I don't talk
much because of it, if possible, start
perhaps with some thought of yours and
then I open it for us,
then I put it on the screen for him and
absolutely for me, and as he said,
Wire also bet that the
winning play was in supporting the community
of developers and entrepreneurs
with the crisis, invoices and
technological tools and licenses to build
the companies of the financial future with
blogging projects, buying clips,
coins, which are wallets, described
stablecoins,
they mentioned stablecoins with Sidor,
it is exactly the work we are
doing to be able to buy those stablecoins
with a Visa card, payments,
final value movement, a
very important part of building our network,
and it is working very closely with the Ibiza Council,
the Latin American ecosystem and the rest
of the world, so for us it is
exactly the bet we made, it is to be
able to support those who are
starting to
build the companies of the financial future,
I like this advice, it also came out with
an idea,
we are also clients of
Jose's company and waiting and visas,
I think
The best advice I could give
someone
in the dyeing industry who wants to start a business
is to take a moment and think about
which financial service they don't
like how it's being offered, whatever it
is in any cash flow,
and then take that step and say, "How
can I do it better? How much
better can I do it?" And
if being good, well, God knows, it's
better to earn a 30% margin on what
I'm selling.
Start a company and then explore
what technology is out there to
solve those problems, and create a
product tailored to a specific
problem, an offer that isn't
personalized. It's like saying, "This is like I
'm using Windows XP, but
we have to use different
versions."
Perfect. Someone
will be the node, maybe there will be some downside to the
question of entrepreneurship with
crowdsourcing. So I think
when Rubén talks about some
experiences that weren't good, but at
least for that, he emigrated from
Latin America to Canada when he was
young, and the process of sending
cash here was terrible. Yes, so I
think TransferWay was the first one
I used, besides the... banks
because they are my
best experience and today I have 10 TransferWise accounts
to use many of them from
Latin America, as I said, they are
doing a very good job in
Mexico, so I think that connects
with your question.
Well, gentlemen, let's turn up the
screen so he can talk a
little bit about Startup Weekend, and I'd like to
close my part by
thanking you all very much for your time, your
sincerity, the uniqueness of your
answers, and your ideas, or how you
inspire entrepreneurs
here in Latin America to make the
region grow faster so that we can
understand the leadership position. So, thank you all very much,
and I hope to speak to you again soon.
Well, he and I
will... thank you all very much, thank you very much,
Roberto, and well, I
am Eloy Becerril, I am the regional manager
for Latin America of the
community programs in Texts, and I also want to
give you an additional piece of advice from the
panelists, which is to start your own business right now, go ahead and
participate in the
next Texts Weekend, in blogs,
link with Visas and with Stellar. We're currently
developing
this project, this great event, so that
all the ideas
discussed in this panel, and many
other financial problems that need
solving in the region,
can be brought together with people from all over
Latin America who are also interested in
entrepreneurship,
blogging, and giving
finance a different perspective. We'll be
working over a weekend
where you can take your idea a
step further, to a prototype, to a
validated model. We'll have a
fantastic group of mentors and judges
during this weekend who will
surely help you connect
and learn a great deal.
If you want to skip to the next
slide, Robert, it's a
completely immersive and 100% online experience. On
day one, you'll share your idea with
the entire group of participants, and
these multidisciplinary teams will be formed
with people from different parts of
Latin America. To give you an idea, we already have
people registered from
Mexico, Argentina, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, and even some
Spanish-speaking friends in Spain.
So, we're really connecting the
Spanish-speaking community to the wider community.
Latin American women are getting down to
work and transforming finance in
Latin America with Block Sing. On
Saturday, the 2nd, we have
a phenomenal group of
industry experts who have worked in
different startups and
financial organizations across
Latin America, and who
also lead Block Change communities in the region. They will be your
mentors, guiding you
through the day to create a prototype and
a
business model that makes sense, as
the panelists discussed. Finally, on
Sunday, the 3rd, you will present everything you
built over the weekend in a
pitch format
to a jury. Thanks to Avisa and the
Measurement program, we will have
special prizes, and if that weren't enough,
all the money raised from
ticket sales will go to
Laboratorio Punto de Lea, a
non-profit organization that
seeks to bring greater diversity and
opportunities for women in
Latin America so they can continue
developing by learning to
program. So, it's an event with
many positive aspects; it's a great
opportunity, as they already mentioned, to... Entrepreneurship
in Latin America continues this momentum
to transform finance in the region.
This event will take place
next weekend, from October 15th to 17th,
100% online for everyone in
Latin America. The page is sw blog
change latam dot 0. For joining us
at this event, you have a
special 50%
discount code: sw l 50. We hope you can
share this event with
people in your community and join us
next
weekend, starting October 15th. Thank
you so much for
making this happen. It's a privilege to promote this
initiative and
encourage everyone
participating here to
join the event. So,
thank you again to the panelists and
everyone who joined us. I'll
stay a few minutes to
answer some questions in the chat,
but that's all for today. Thank God, and have a
great rest of the week.